Here are some handy examples related to updating a Kubernetes Deployment:



Creating a deployment, checking the rollout status and history:

In the example below, we will first create a simple deployment and inspect the rollout status and the rollout history:



master $ kubectl create deployment nginx --image=nginx:1.16
deployment.apps/nginx created
 
master $ kubectl rollout status deployment nginx
Waiting for deployment "nginx" rollout to finish: 0 of 1 updated replicas are available...
deployment "nginx" successfully rolled out
 
master $
 
 
master $ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx
deployment.extensions/nginx
REVISION CHANGE-CAUSE
1     <none>
 
master $


Using the --revision flag:

Here the revision 1 is the first version where the deployment was created.

You can check the status of each revision individually by using the --revision flag:

master $ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx --revision=1
deployment.extensions/nginx with revision #1
 
Pod Template:
 Labels:    app=nginx    pod-template-hash=6454457cdb
 Containers:  nginx:  Image:   nginx:1.16
  Port:    <none>
  Host Port: <none>
  Environment:    <none>
  Mounts:   <none>
 Volumes:   <none>
master $ 


Using the --record flag:

You would have noticed that the "change-cause" field is empty in the rollout history output. We can use the --record flag to save the command used to create/update a deployment against the revision number.

master $ kubectl set image deployment nginx nginx=nginx:1.17 --record
deployment.extensions/nginx image updated
master $master $
 
master $ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx
deployment.extensions/nginx
 
REVISION CHANGE-CAUSE
1     <none>
2     kubectl set image deployment nginx nginx=nginx:1.17 --record=true
master $


You can now see that the change-cause is recorded for the revision 2 of this deployment.

Let's make some more changes. In the example below, we are editing the deployment and changing the image from nginx:1.17 to nginx:latest while making use of the --record flag.

master $ kubectl edit deployments. nginx --record
deployment.extensions/nginx edited
 
master $ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx
REVISION CHANGE-CAUSE
1     <none>
2     kubectl set image deployment nginx nginx=nginx:1.17 --record=true
3     kubectl edit deployments. nginx --record=true
 
 
 
master $ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx --revision=3
deployment.extensions/nginx with revision #3
 
Pod Template: Labels:    app=nginx
    pod-template-hash=df6487dc Annotations: kubernetes.io/change-cause: kubectl edit deployments. nginx --record=true
 
 Containers:
  nginx:
  Image:   nginx:latest
  Port:    <none>
  Host Port: <none>
  Environment:    <none>
  Mounts:   <none>
 Volumes:   <none>
 
master $


Undo a change:

Lets now rollback to the previous revision:

controlplane $ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx
deployment.apps/nginx 
REVISION  CHANGE-CAUSE
1         <none>
3         kubectl edit deployments.apps nginx --record=true
4         kubectl set image deployment nginx nginx=nginx:1.17 --record=true
 
 
 
controlplane $ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx --revision=3
deployment.apps/nginx with revision #3
Pod Template:
  Labels:       app=nginx
        pod-template-hash=787f54657b
  Annotations:  kubernetes.io/change-cause: kubectl edit deployments.apps nginx --record=true
  Containers:
   nginx:
    Image:      nginx:latest
    Port:      <none> 
    Host Port:  <none>
    Environment: <none>       
    Mounts:     <none>
  Volumes:      
 
controlplane $ kubectl describe deployments. nginx | grep -i image:
    Image:        nginx:1.17
 
controlplane $


With this, we have rolled back to the previous version of the deployment with the image = nginx:1.17.

controlplane $ kubectl rollout history deployment nginx --revision=1
deployment.apps/nginx with revision #1
Pod Template:
  Labels:       app=nginx
        pod-template-hash=78449c65d4
  Containers:
   nginx:
    Image:      nginx:1.16
    Port:       <none> 
    Host Port:  <none>
    Environment: <none>     
    Mounts:     <none>
  Volumes:      
 
controlplane $ kubectl rollout undo deployment nginx --to-revision=1
deployment.apps/nginx rolled back
To rollback to specific revision we will use the --to-revision flag.
With --to-revision=1, it will be rolled back with the first image we used to create a deployment as we can see in the rollout history output.

controlplane $ kubectl describe deployments. nginx | grep -i image:
Image: nginx:1.16
